hey everyone thank you so much for
stopping on this video this video is all
about the table topics evaluator role
and you're going to catch a live example
of me taking on that role at my local
Toastmasters Club my name is Wade
Patterson and my YouTube channel is all
about impactful communication it's right
there and helping you become a better
more powerful Communicator communication
is something that's so important in
every area of life
therefore if that's something you want
to improve upon please consider
subscribing to my channel every
subscriber helps me take one step closer
to investing more time and resources
into this channel so it would mean a lot
if you hit that subscribe button and
while you're at it turn on notifications
so you never miss one of my videos so
I've done a few of these live example
videos hauling my camera into my local
Toastmasters Club to show you how I take
on these various roles and these are raw
footage these are things where I hit the
record button and pretty much every time
I do I'm uploading these videos
therefore I get to analyze them and sit
down with you and kind of Judge what did
I do well and what did I not do so well
and talk about that because this is the
point of public speaking it's practicing
it's honing our skills getting better
and better and so in this video I take
on the table topics evaluator role so
let's take a a look at how I did and
then we can discuss afterward thank you
madam Toastmaster fellow Toastmasters in
person and on Zoom today was a wonderful
table topic session filled with lovely
anecdotes where we learned a lot about
each other
and I'll leave
the full evaluation of the table topics
Master to the general evaluator except
to say two things I noticed fantastic
thought-provoking questions from Sue and
Sue also transitioned really well which
is a very good skill being able to take
an answer that somebody gives
turn that into the next question while
adding some commentary on that so
fantastic job by Sue Kim was the first
person who had the opportunity to answer
a question and her body language was
fantastic right away she said do I
choose Health do I choose money which
one she answered the question directly
she gave a very good reason if you take
too many risks with your health you
can't really enjoy any money along those
lines fantastic job by Kim no gifts for
her next up was Dan and it sounded like
early the wheels were turning in his
head so he did a very smart tactic he
asked to repeat the question or he
repeated the question bought himself a
little bit of time and then he fell into
the flow where he was able to answer
strong eye contact Dan had not only with
the room but he also included Zoom often
throughout delivering his answer my gift
for Dan is something that we like to
call the invisible table his arm stayed
at 90 degrees and above
very common thing we do as speakers we
keep our hands like this and we don't
let them drop to our side but it is more
impactful if you can let them drop to
the side and then bring them up when
needed
next up was yazzy and she started her
answer with a little bit of humor
jumping it's not for me got the audience
laughing which was a fantastic start she
summarized the question as well my gift
for yazzy is to include the rest of the
audience with eye contact
a lot of the answer was being looked at
the table topic Master which was Sue
answering her directly you want to
include the full audience and the
members on Zoom
next up was myself I completely avoided
the question a tactic I use very often
and turned it my own way no comment
there
Wendy had a question would she rather
swim with the sharks or be a presenter
on Shark Tank Wendy has this incredible
mix of confidence and calmness she comes
in authoritatively and gives her answer
with that vocal variety which she
utilized so well toward the end of the
answer she made a loud noise
to get our attention and then concluded
by bringing her voice down which really
Drew Us in and body language was
effective throughout talking about the
number one choice showing that number
one
next up was Jeff
I hope this situation goes okay I mean
fascinating answer but wow I mean you
drew Us in with that real life situation
hope everything's okay there my one gift
Jeff for you is while you were thinking
and speaking you did look up above that
camera this is incredibly common that we
look up or we look down while we're
thinking it's something to be mindful of
if you can look directly at that camera
as you deliver the answer it keeps the
audience engaged
Margaret was the next respondent and she
took a minute to collect her thoughts
but then you almost saw the light bulb
moment go off when she realized what she
was going to talk about and got right
into her comfort zone there was a great
use of body language talking about
biking using those pedals physically
showing us helps us engage with the
story The Gift I have for Margaret is
the hand movements early so there was
some of this and then some clasping be
mindful of those hands keep them to your
side
next up was Moya and Moya has this
ability to take a table topics answer
and make it sound like a speech so well
structured and she comes up with
enthusiasm when I am asked a question I
take my sweet time walking to the stage
as I really think about what I'm going
to talk about not Moya jumps out of her
chair runs up here and then delivers an
answer as if it's a rehearse speech I
mean that in the nicest of ways that
it's so well formed
I'm going to give you a very picky gift
Moya and that is very briefly as you
jumped in and you were speaking quickly
you looked up at that ceiling then you
looked down and I was hoping I'd be able
to call you on the rest of it but you
eliminate it was just in that moment you
were thinking something to be mindful of
that's an incredibly nitpicky gift
and very similar response for Sue again
that enthusiasm you have no time Sue had
no time to walk up to the stage she was
already here got her her question and
right away jumped into an answer made it
sound like something she had
prepared it's that smooth that well done
my gift same as Moya brief look at the
ceiling and the floor early on this is
incredibly common to collect the
thoughts something to be mindful of
thank you
all right there you have it you saw me
take on that long evaluator roll there
was a lot of table topics questions in
that meeting let's break down what I did
well first and then we could talk about
areas that could have improved right
after that the first thing I did well
really early on was incorporating the
word of the day at Toastmasters meetings
the grammarian always presents a word of
the day and it should always be a good
challenge for you to try and use that
word one thing I like to do little
strategy is use the word upfront in the
first couple sentences that way I know
I've done it and it's almost like
checking off that box all right use the
word of the day in that meeting it was
anecdote or anecdotal therefore I said
hey many people shared some interesting
anecdotes using the word of the day as
part of their table topics answers that
was one relief then I don't have to
worry about using the word later on that
was something I did well this second
thing I don't know if I'd say that I did
this well but it's it's almost a pet
peeve of mine is that the table topics
Master whoever is reviewing that person
there seems to be a bit of a gap because
you have the table topics evaluator but
you also have the general evaluator and
the assumption is that the general
evaluator will comment on the table
topics Master but my pet peeve is that I
have been the table topics Master a
number of times and neither the table
topics evaluator nor the general
evaluator has included that role what I
like to do as table topics evaluator is
say one or two quick things about the
table topics Master but then mention out
loud I'm going to leave the rest of the
review to the general evaluator that
signifies that I'm handing it off to
them I'm not trying to steal their
Thunder and that feedback but I would
rather have two people give feedback to
the tabletop topics Master than nobody
so that was my strategy in up front
mentioning a couple things that the
table topics Master did well another
thing I thought I did pretty well
throughout this table topics evaluator
role was mimicking uses of body language
that the respondents had done therefore
I'm not just saying Kim used great body
language I'm saying Kim used great body
language when she said health or money
and I duplicated what she had done
through her speech which acted as a good
reminder to the audience oh yeah Kim's
response was about this that is a great
challenge for you if you're taking on
the table topics evaluator role is not
to Simply say this person had great body
language this person had strong vocal
variety it's to actually use an example
from their answer write that down in
your notes and then reference that when
delivering your evaluation because it
reminds the audience and it is a more
impactful evaluation that's going to
stick with the other members of your
Club the final thing I'll mention that I
think I did decent was notes wise I
always like to set my notes to the side
of me on the lectern that way I can
reference them and then I'm not hit or
hindering body language I'm not hiding
behind the lectern the lectern's to the
side I can glance at my notes then I can
address the audience make eye contact
and continue with my evaluation so how
could I have improved my task as table
topics evaluator well the first thing I
could have done is stayed in third
person as evaluators it's very difficult
not to jump between third and second
person and by third person I mean
referring to the speakers by their
actual names Christy did this very well
James could have improved in this area
by speaking that way you want to keep it
consistent without but the challenge is
when you're delivering feedback and the
people are in the room it's very
tempting to say James you did this very
well and then Christy could have done
this better and by changing that tense
it gets a little bit distracting for the
audience the goal is to stay in third
person I did a pretty good job but then
toward the end I started saying you
instead of the person's name that is
something I'll need to fix for the next
time the next thing I could have
improved and I know I added it as one of
the things I did positive in terms of
the notes but I did get caught in a
couple times looking down at my notes
and talking the ideal situation is to
reference the notes then look up and
continue speaking if I'm being
completely honest the reason for this
because there were so many table topic
speakers my writing is very messy and I
was struggling to read my own notes so
that's my next piece of advice is write
clearly so you don't run into that same
problem that I had so when it came to
notes I did pretty well keeping them to
the side not referencing too often but
where I could have improved is when I
was referencing the notes not looking
down and talking and reading them I
should have just got the information
looked up and then continued with my
evaluation another thing I noticed that
I could have improved on when reviewing
my answer is I did this like lip smack
thing in between questions where I
looked down
and make this tisk sound and that's
something our all counter has actually
started observing is when we make that
type of noise and usually they call us
on it I wasn't called on it this week
but in watching my answer back I did
notice I made that sound it's always
good to be aware of our own little
Tendencies or noises that we make the is
one that I'll need to watch for in the
future the final thing I could have
improved on in this role was the fact I
went a little long on time now it gets
tricky because there were so many table
topics questions the timer did adjust
accordingly but I still went a little
bit too long so that is something that I
can improve on in the future the overall
comments from the general evaluator was
that she thought I did a fantastic job
with the evaluation she had high praise
for me which was very kind because if
I'm going to be honest I think there
were a couple things maybe I'm being a
little nitpicky but definitely some
things I could improve on for of the
future but she had positive things to
say if you're thinking of taking on the
table topics evaluator role I really
encourage you to do it this is a great
role to really hone your skills as an
evaluator it helps you improve your
listening skills and forces you to
really pay attention and engage with
other people's table topic responses
best of luck taking it on and I hope
that this video has given you some
confidence in order to take on that role
let me know in the comments was there
anything I missed what did you think of
my table topics evaluator performance
would love to hear it and if this
channel has provided you with value
whether it was this video or other
videos you've watched please subscribe
to the channel I would really appreciate
it it really helps me grow and continue
to put out this content thanks so much
for watching and I'll catch you on the
next one people are more scared of
public speaking than they are of dying
is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Sean kanungu and I get their tips
firsthand of what makes them incredible
at what they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it